David Castro

Cheeyeon
So let’s get into it. I want to ask you about your organizational mission and your current role at the Chinese Historical Society [of Southern California]. Could you begin by sharing your current priorities at the Chinese Historical Society and describing your role there as an archivist? We’d also love to hear about the Duty and Honor project.

David
With regards to our priorities and our mission at the Chinese Historical Society, at least with regards to the archive, our main focus is getting through backlogged archival collections. We have about 200 linear feet of material, about 100 feet is processed, the other 100 feet is not. So we're working towards getting that additional 100 feet processed and made accessible online through OAC.

OAC is where we host our finding aids and will be the most direct access an individual would have to view the material in each of our collections. Along with that, we're also currently placing a lot of emphasis on emergency preparedness, developing emergency preparedness policies with regards to how the operations would persist during the event of a fire or the event of a natural disaster that would affect onsite operations. So in this case, it's developing criteria or rather a workflow for completely transforming all onsite work to remote work for archivists and interns. That looks like developing a list of possible digital projects, that the archivists can take on; that looks like also developing a comprehensive guide as to how to approach disasters that also might affect like the stability of the archive itself from collecting material that might be used for, I don't know, let's say mediating a flood that might occur in a repository. Also collecting a variety of different phone numbers that would be useful in the event of a disaster, for example, collecting information on who our insurance provider is for the building itself, collecting information on who to contact in the event of a natural disaster. In this case, we have direct phone numbers to the business improvement district in Chinatown. The BID, the BID is what they're called, they have patrolling or kind of like security personnel who kind of ride in bikes all throughout Chinatown. And because we are a part of the community as a nonprofit, we have access to this like patrolling entity, if you will, to help us in the event of a natural disaster, even if like, you know, a stranger would have come into our site and would not want to leave, to kind of like all wrap it all up together.

In emphasizing emergency preparedness, we applied for a GroundWorks One grant through the California State Library. That grant went towards purchasing emergency preparedness supplies along with providing us with free courses on what it means to put an emergency preparedness plan together. I think at some point also, we were also introduced to the process of salvaging wet books and wet material and stuff like that through one of these courses. In addition to that, we applied and won the GroundWorks Two grant through the same entity. Money for that grant went directly towards installing our fire suppression system that's still currently underway. To speak a little bit about that, we looked into specifically purchasing a fire suppression system that's, what's the word, it's sort of like powder based, aerosol based, as opposed to a system that is water based, in the sense that an aerosol based system is pretty much just like powder particles that would be sprayed into a repository that would not be so detrimental to the material in our repository as opposed to water that would be coming out of a sprinkler system in the event of a fire. So in any case, we were able to capitalize on this initiative by winning these grants and kind of applying money towards different avenues that would be able to push this forward into the future with preserving our material.

Last but not least, I would say a third priority of ours is just getting much more acquainted with the process of producing programming, like external partnerships with organizations and entities in the public history world. For example, we were recently reached out to by the National Park Service because they are requesting materials from our Donner Summit collection that pertains to material that was used by, I believe, Chinese and Chinese American excavators. Donner Summit, Donner Pass in particular has a rail system that at one point or another ran through a tunnel up in that mountainside and it was Chinese Americans who built that tunnel. And they left behind all sorts of everyday material like kitchenware to pots and tools and so on and so forth, which we currently have in our repository. And to make a long story short, the NPS wants to use this material in a new exhibition that they're going to come out with on Ellis Island that goes into the history of Chinese Americans and their experiences and their presence in America starting as far back, I believe, as the early 1800s. So that in itself is just reflective of a partnership that we want to pursue and from a greater sense, gain experience from to guide our practice with forming at least education programming.

Now in terms of my role as an archivist, I'm not necessarily the archivist who does the processing, who does the everyday reference and digital access work there. I'm the chair of the archives and in that sense I provide guidance for our community archivist, who is Riona Tsai. 

So CHSSC operates as a non-profit. There are many arms to CHSSC. We're just one arm of the whole of the whole organization if you will. There's an educational arm. There's also a community outreach arm along with a fundraising arm of sorts and the people in the board space don't necessarily know what we're doing 100% of the time in our archival setting. So it's my job to present updates to the board every month as to the work that's being completed by our community archivist, any sort of new updates concerning partnerships or people reaching out to us in terms of community members looking for material to reference like that type of stuff. So simply put I'm sort of like a director of sorts and I also share this role with two other folks on the archives committee. We try to hold archive committee meetings at least twice a month to just go over the current work that we're doing along with crafting ideas for future endeavors, future projects. So that kind of sums up my role and then to quickly simply give you a little bit more information on Duty and Honor [Collection]. The project itself took place between 1996 and 1997. The part the project had was Marjorie Lee who at some point or another served as the librarian at the I believe it's the Asian American Study Center at UCLA.

Cheeyeon
Yeah.

David
Is she still there?

Cheeyeon
Yeah she's still there.

David
Okay so yeah she's the one who at that time took on this initiative within CHSSC and she's still a part of the organization to this day. She took on the initiative to collect oral histories, World War II memorabilia, infirmary, like separation documents, any sort of documents that track the history of a veteran's experience in World War II. And to kind of like narrow it down like she was particularly focused on Chinese American World War II veterans who lived in the Southern California area. So this included folks from Los Angeles as far as San Diego and as far as Ventura as well. And the culmination of her work led to the creation of the Duty and Honor book that in a way synthesizes all of the information that she gathered.

The book itself also lists over like 300 veterans that contributed to this project in some shape or form. Skip to the year 2018 it was under Albert Lowe. Albert Lowe was like the principal archivist for putting together the Duty and Honor Collection. I worked under his supervision as an intern at the time and it was my responsibility to transcribe about 40 to 45 oral history interviews that were given. And I produced full-fledged word for word transcripts for this project along with also digitizing some 35 millimeter slides.

All in all the collection still serves the community well to this day. For example back in 2018 President Donald Trump at the time he signed into law, let me rephrase that… He kind of signed into law in a sense that Chinese Americans who served in World War II were going to be federally recognized through the distribution or like the honor of being given a congressional gold medal for their experience in World War II. And so because of this you know a lot of community members have to come to our archive and consult the military records we have in the Duty and Honor project to then send over to whichever federal agency was taking care of this process, send over this information to them to verify that their loved one was in fact part of the U.S. military at the time… that's a great example of how even to this day the the Duty and Honor Collection is still useful. I know that was a bit of a long-winded sort of answer but does that kind of cover what you were looking for?

Cheeyeon
Yeah that was really useful thank you so much. So my next question is, beyond your work at the Chinese Historical Society, what does an aspiring community archivist need to know about working in this field in general? What kind of boundaries are necessary to do this work in a sustainable way?

David
I would say is that a community archivist needs to know that the field of community archiving is first off financially unstable like field to work in or like niche to work in the sense that our employee at least we have one employee for example her name is Riona like I mentioned and in order to hire her like as a full-time archivist we had to apply for a Mellon's Foundation grant which we received, this was a grant for a total of $100,000 and we were able to split the grant to two years so she was being given a $50,000 sort of salary for two years of her work.

The unfortunate side to that is that this position did not come with benefits or like a retirement plan and that's simply because the Historical Society just could not afford to sustain a package like that so she had to go in with this understanding that she's only going to be paid her salary and nothing more than just that.

For the longest time before Riona we tried to sustain our archival employment if you will with with part-time archivist and the funding for that usually came from like generous endowment money that we received from community members and more often than not we were able to support like 20, 15 to like 20 hours per week sort of work for our archivist but the issue with that is that those were like term-based sort of contracts so we would only be able to afford to employ an archivist for a year if we're lucky maybe a year and a half at a time and with this sort of employment comes at least from our perspective the society's perspective really the turnaround for our employees really does affect like the sort of like the continuity or like the common practice of the archive in the sense that if there is no like off-boarding, like list of projects for the next community archivist to take on or like actions that the the current community archivist took took place in, it would lead to like a hard environment for the community the next community archivist to kind of like take up efforts and and continue like the work that's done in in our repository so that's a that's a big like issue as well and then I would also say yeah I mean it all just comes down to to just like sort of like this unstable sort of environment and and within the environment itself like community archivist is also expected to kind of like play a jack of all trades meaning you know you may be expected to like know or possess knowledge about archival processing but also along those lines you should also have like knowledge about like digital infrastructure and like metadata schemas and whatnot along with knowing how to like contribute like reference work and how to you know pretty much like manage and supervise interns and whatnot there's a variety of different roles that a community archivist can take on if um if there are not already people in place to take on like those specific uh duties in a in a repository and in terms of boundaries I would say when I think of boundaries I think of like personal boundaries and I think the one thing about working in community archive is that you might work with folks again like in our space like the board that might not know like the type of work that you do and might just throw random like duties at you that don't fall under your scope so in our at least in the case of our community archivist you know she has to she's had to like develop like like setting up personal boundaries in the sense of of being able to say no of, but being confident enough to say no and to to address like random work in a very professional manner, letting like board members know that you know she's only here for archiving and she's not here for like crafting membership lists or um you know working on a newsletter and something of that nature so yeah I'd say like personal setting up personal boundaries from the onset of like any sort of community archivist role is definitely important um in in your environment.

Cheeyeon
Thank you so much um i'll pass it on to our teammate now.


Jana
Yeah um so we're interested in um glimpsing a snapshot of technical and soft skills that are required for this role I think you kind of already touched on the um like internal skills that are required um so I think i'll ask about in terms of working with community members um how do you foster trust and then also how do you balance grand deliverables and general professionalism with community building?

David
Um in terms of like developing trust with community members, it at least for us it looks like continuously like updating our community on what we're doing in the archive whether it's through like a newsletter or like a personal handwritten letter to someone so for example um I recently received a letter from Paul from the Paul Lewie foundation and they're one of our like uh biggest like um donators and um they express you know really great enthusiasm and support for what we have been able to uh do in the past year especially with winning the Melon foundation grant and um I didn't have to reply but I took it upon myself to at least write it like a nice thank you letter along with like some some words of um of uh appreciation to them and it's small things like that that I feel are very beneficial for for keeping our um sort of like our not our members but our donators like close to close to us and and like developing and sustaining like their their trust in in our work um there are there's often the case too that we have um that we present during our monthly um like seminars or like webinars if you will where we'll update folks on like a collection on work that's been done on a collection or will present on like a unique sort of like historical theme that was researched within a collection those webinars usually got a large crowd like anywhere between like 50 to like 70 people um that's one way as well that we kind of like try and reinforce or foster that trust with our community members um and then when it comes to like reference requests we usually get a lot of reference requests from community members we do our very best to walk them through the process of um providing them like research help or um like archival help um and in some cases you know there's the process of um collecting a fee for for scanning a photograph or um you know providing an audio uh an audio visual file um just walking through that walking through that process in a professional manner is also is kind of like what is expected of us and kind of also kind of like smooths over sort of like that sort of um intimidating sort of like process of of uh requesting material from our repository um I feel like that's about all I can say with that regard um again we just do our very best try and be professional as much as possible um in each moment of like connection and and like interaction that we have with our community members.

Cheeyeon
That was great thank you um I think Sage is next. 

Sage
Yeah thank you for that um we had some questions for you about like labor trends and we were curious just like how reliant your organization is on unpaid interns and volunteers and if that's a typical model for community archives.

David
Yeah so as part of like my duty as a archives um share of the archives i've done my best to push forward this idea that interns should be paid um and this kind of falls in line with like a much more broader um sort of movement and understanding within the field that any sort of like labor or work should be paid. Period um, before I got on board as like the chair of the archives um there were opportunities for interns to get paid um to kind of take a step back I was an intern so i've been a part of the society for about nine years for about seven of those years I was interning like here and there for them and there were opportunities for me to get paid for each and every one of those like internship um roles that I took on um and I would say at least within our society it was common practice for interns who were undergraduates not to get paid graduate students like current MLIS like students or even like recent graduates it was common practice to pay them which was the case for like my internship experience but for the case of undergraduates I i've tried my best to kind of like change that perspective within the board space and we have now been paying our undergraduates um my role itself uh is a volunteer role um and I chose to take it on because I I felt like this position was going to provide me um immense skill and like leadership um grant writing um organizational um management and so on and I feel like and i've been the chair for the last two years and I feel like it's provided me just that and I went into this role knowing that I was going to be unpaid for much of this or for all of this time but again it kind of like pays off in a way um and to put simply at least to speak a little bit about myself um so I volunteer for the historical society but at the same time i'm a full-time employee at Cal Poly Pomona special collections and archives I'm the archives and books coordinator here rare books coordinator here and uh you know trying to balance full-time work with like a sort of uh supervisional sort of um director sort of like role in a non-profit is really hard uh to do um to balance uh like free time at at home and then also some free time at work to to respond to emails and whatnot um like like those instances kind of like compound over time so it's sort of a trade-off at least for me with regards to like the the free like work i've provided as a volunteer um and yeah I mean that's kind of again like going kind of like just to wrap this all up the framework has been to like not pay undergrads pay graduate students um we flipped it in the sense that we're paying undergrads now but volunteers typically also if you're on the board space you know you you kind of have to provide free labor you're not allowed to it's written in the bylaws that you're not allowed to be on the board space and reap any sort of like monetary um compensation for the labor that you put into the work so I mean if you ask me I think that's something in the bylaws that does need to be changed uh just so that the work that not just myself but a future archive share um is recognized not just by you know notoriety and like celebratoryness and whatnot but also like with some sort of compensation because the work we do is really important so yeah that's all I really have to provide for that.


Sage
Awesome thank you um we were wondering um how do you anticipate AI impact in your work and do you have any concerns about ai's impact on the mission of pursuing preserving and communicating the impact and history of Chinese and Chinese Americans and stuff in California


David
Yeah that's a good question um AI is taking over in the sense that companies like Preservica for example and if you're not familiar with like Preservica, Preservica is like a standard um like preservation platform uh long-term preservation for like digital files there's also like a front facing component to it as well but recently like I attended a uh seminar that was provided by Preservica that detailed all the unique interfaces that will be enabled within a Preservica instance that are entirely like powered by AI so what they explained they there was like a number of different sort of like workflows they explained but like some of the workflows that come to mind is the ability for AI within the system to immediately um like deaccession or like weed out duplicates from uh a bulk of digital files that you upload into the system um AI within their interface would also be able to provide um like descriptive metadata that it extracts from from for lack of a better word like viewing the image or like the scan of a document that you upload um there are a number of other like AI kind of like components or widgets built into that platform but that that I walked away thinking that um you know they they're on to something but it also uh will have like drastic effects you know to the work that we do um before this web uh seminar I also attended a seminar that was provided by Jstore um it was an in-person seminar at ucla this was sometime I think in march or february of last year and their own um like uh digital asset management system is also building or rather incorporating all of these AI similar AI components and widgets that Preservica was explaining in their seminar and within at least the Jstore seminar I had the I I was welcomed in a room full of other like professionals from different universities like UCLA and CSUN and the one point they brought across is that you know if AI does all of the in a sense like metadata for us and like quality like assurance work for us then in some ways that would reduce the role of a metadata librarian or a like a metadata specialist to like nothing more than like a quality control agent you know someone who might just need to like review the work that AI has done for for the repository and in turn you know if if that's how the landscape is going to turn then what would the administrators think of a university administrators who don't have any sort of like knowledge of what we do on a day-to-day basis what are they going to think when they see that you know all we're doing in our respective roles again whether we're metadata librarians or metadata specialists is like doing quality checks does that then mean they'll lower the compensation for those in like this specific niche in the field or would they completely you know do away with them all together like that that itself is sort of like like a worst case scenario way of thinking but in the sense it's it's it's very much real because universities academic universities are always at the risk of of budget cuts and having to like navigate budget cuts and in some cases that means like cutting personnel or reducing hours etc um and the last point I would make totally different from like like the real world work sort of aspect it goes into like theory right um with like culturally sensitive material that that can be found within like uh chinese american collect uh collections that represent chinese americans or chinese like experiences um with like these types of collections is very much like a nuanced way of of describing uh material from like a culturally knowledgeable culturally like um sort of like empathetic um like realm that is required to to describe and and to to provide access to like this type of material AI in a sense may not possess like that background knowledge of a culture or that background um sort of like empathy or, or experience to then like guide its sort of description or understanding of how a item whether a document or photograph should be described um so like that's the one very unsettling like nature of sort of like that rapid metadata description sort of interface AI would be responsible before um yeah that's pretty much all I have to say about that

Sage
Um yeah no that's that definitely answered the question I guess just like to expand on that then are there ways that the society is thinking about like how to safeguard the materials from that kind of exploitation? 

David
um i'll be honest I don't think AI has reached like our conversations just yet um there was one instance where a community member had an image that they um scanned from us um this was a low dpI image I think it was like 96 dpI um resolution that isn't all that great for publishing in like a physical book and unfortunately we um we could not locate that the physical like representation in our archive so this patron only had the digital file to go off on and they were in a sense kind of like pressuring us to use chat gpt or like any sort of like different AI like photo enhancing um software to to um update update the resolution or in some ways have AI recreate the image into an upscaled um like uh image and ultimately we told them we don't first and foremost like that's not part of our responsibility if you'd like to do that you can do that within your own time although we did you know dissuade him from from doing just that um but at the same time we we just were we're stories of history we're not trying to alter it in any way I I did take sort of like I did kind of like juggle with the idea I wanted to see what AI would do to an image that was very um like grainy the one that he provided so I asked it to enhance the image but the resulting image the image but the resulting image that it turned out the uh so the image was of a young child taken probably some time in like the late 1800s 1890s to be exact and it was a um Chinese American boy it's a black and white image and the resulting upscaled image that Chat gpt uh turned out looked nothing like the boy that was uh uh pictured in the original scan that was provided um I ran the process maybe two or three more times and each of those times like there was some feature of the boy's face that was was uh different even even in a very slight way whether it was the nose whether whether it was the eyes the ears or like the the eyebrows and that in itself like was sort of like a lesson for me and ultimately a big a big takeaway was that you really can't trust AI with um with photographs with with photographs that might picture like a relative or might picture um sensitive content because in some shape or fashion it's going to alter the image it won't be a true one of one from the original image that was taken so ultimately we we told him we couldn't do it we tried to dissuade him from doing it himself but it was truly just up to him to to um do what he wanted um I think his intent was to put it in like a family's like uh like a personal like book that he was creating like a physical book so yeah that's the only one experience again that AI came up with in our within our space.

Chanel
I guess i'm next um that is um a really good example thank you um since this interview is going to be shared with our classmates um can you tell us how your MLIS degree has prepared you or not prepared you for these positions both theoretically and technically and how does your history degree inform your archival practice?

David
So I'll start off with the history degree um so in undergrad I spent three years at UCLA I wanted to pursue archives in some shape or form so I was able to find an opportunity with a student group at UCLA called Samahang Pilipino and they were able to give you my start um I preserved some of their collect or um some of their items that they had in their office space that were kind of like sticking out of drawers and stuff and I worked with heather bristle at the time to um like work with that collection organize it and then um ship it off to UCLA's uh special collections because they already had a Samahang Pilipinoo collection that was created by a predecessor back in 1995 so that experience in itself kind of like led me in this direction but if we're speaking about like my degree um I spent a lot of time like crafting essays and research articles using primary sources and so I learned naturally like how to and develop my own way of how to um read through a primary source how to kind of like uh embed it within like like the context of of like historical period um you know how to understand like biases and how to understand like the like credibility or like veracity of like material i'm looking at and i'd say like the way it's directly helped me in the work I do is um through the reference work that I do for patrons um often is the case that you're provided with a question about locating a image or a audio visual tape um sometimes answering the question can be easy and you know a tape or an image can be easily accessible in one of our collections but if there's the case that um you know a item isn't so easily accessible we do provide some sort of like background research or like some sort of guidance by going on google or searching through like our um primary source databases um reading through books because books are still used in some ways as a as a source of uh information gathering and and providing like supportive like information for a patron through all that work so that they can then um like continue on with their um with their research if if we did not find like the item in question or like the material that they're requesting is just not in our repository period um so that's how it's directly helped and also with with um at least the work I do in cal poly um I help support workshops where we teach students um sort of like a we provide them sort of like a 101 or like an introduction to conducting primary source research and we usually provide them with a document that was created by um I want to say it's the history project out of UC Irvine and it's off the top of my head it's called the six c's of primary source analysis and it goes into detail or provides a framework for collecting information about like content uh context conclusion um credibility uh citation like that sort of like nature of work so like again like that that history skill is is what directly leads to like work today that I do um

David
And then from my MLIS experience I did get my MLIS degree at SJSU I did my very best to take classes that would help inform like my work in archives and in and rare books um if there were a lot of classes that kind of like delved into like the theory of like archival arrangement like we learned a lot about like archival bonds original order respective funds and all that type of stuff um because it was like a remote based um curriculum there weren't classes I had to go to and also like the internship opportunities we had to like look for them ourselves but in the case of like school like I did full-time work at the Getty research institute then here at Cal Poly Pomona so I kind of was attending school at the same time that I was doing like full-time work so I was able to use um the knowledge I had at work to produce assignments and vice versa like the knowledge I was receiving at school helped inform what I was doing at work um going back to like the curriculum what I found really useful for me were classes that were um based in like um digital archiving in some shape or form so I did take a class in like digital forensics that taught me how to um extract information from like legacy formats like for example floppy disk uh they taught me like which software is to use and which hardware to use to to extract information from from that um in a separate class uh content content management and like digital you know it was like it's like content enterprise something of that nature in any case in this class I was able to learn how to like navigate the Preservica environment and for the for the length of like 16 weeks all of our assignments related to building digital collections within preservica and that was important because the job i'm at today Preservica is used here and more than likely will is also used in a variety of other like academic institutions so having like that that uh preliminary knowledge uh really helped me um like navigate the uh preservica work that I was performing here at work which involved um creating or rather ingesting digital files ingesting metadata and and disseminating material on the front facing um platform of Preservica um all in all I also to put it to kind of like put it to to a close um I also was able to graduate with a digital asset management certificate from my MLIS program and just having like that certificate alone was really um was really helpful um when interviewing at at different libraries because it was something I was able to always like point to and it showed to like employers that I at least had some sort of like foundation in in digital asset management and like all the work that it encompasses so that was very helpful um so yeah I I'd say overall SJSU was really

David
Has its pros and cons and you know I could spend hours talking about the pros and cons going through the program but I I feel like overall it was helpful

Chanel
Glad to hear that. One last question what is the usual method for hiring at CHSSC and is it mostly internal hires or which avenues do you use for external hires?

David
Um so CHSSC kind of has a network that's built out um in the past we've worked with various professors on projects um various like MLIS uh professionals as well um so we usually rely on our network to uh facilitate or to um like fill in a role um so like for the most recent role that we uh we put out it was the full-time community archivist role and we circulated that um application around to you interns who who worked with us through Michelle Caswell's um SAADA foundation um backed uh like internship program um so riona was a past member of or was a part of a past cohort of that of that internship program um before her we had the opportunity to host I believe three other um members from that program from different cohorts um our previous community archivist came from that cohort or sorry came from that program from a different cohort um but overall you know it just just having just having like those interns uh like support the work we do we relied heavily on Michelle Caswell's um community archives internship program um. Often is the case too that we will have like a patron not patrons but like community members kind of like code call us or code email us to see if there's any like opportunities available and if if like the time lines up well then we'll have them like join us for like a small project if not then we always kind of keep them in a pool of other applicants to reach out to or candidates rather when when time comes that we have a new project available um sometimes yeah I feel like overall we just we've developed like a network that we're able to kind of like extract like professionals from um at any given time usually they come with they they'd come at uh by surprise or usually it's sort of like scheduled during a particular season um such as the case with with Michelle Caswell's community archivist program

Chanel
Thank you um I just have a quick question um yeah i'm wondering if you think Riona would be available or interested in an interview like this. Just so that we can get some more on the ground kind of experience. How long has she worked there for?

David
So as the as the um full-time community archivist she's been on board since last november okay um she like I mentioned she was a part of the 2024/2025 cohort of Michelle Caswell's program um and then even before that she was hired as an undergrad to perform work on a like a community project um I believe it was it was called like the Chinatown remembered project that was led by a professor out at san sacrameno uh Cal State Sacramento so she's been with us for quite a while and um she's produced like a lot of uh like digital like exhibition type of work with us as well as like a as like a intern uh as a part of like an intern pool like whenever there was a project available digital base she was always like consulted cool so yes she I think she would definitely love to talk with you all and would have like really great answers uh to what you've provided

Cheeyeon
Yeah so one last question to wrap all of this up is how would you define a community archive what makes uh chinese historical society a community archive and what does it mean to do this work at a community level independent from an institution um how does this institutional kind of dynamic affect Chinese historical society's work

David
So I would define a community archive as a center for preservation um preservation of community stories community experiences um and also as a center for like dissemination of this type of knowledge or this type of um like realm of content if you will um and they're important because at least for the case of chinese historical society like our number one mission or number one goal is to disseminate the experiences of Chinese and Chinese Americans in Southern California and that might not be like the priority of an academic institution that might have like many different like collecting areas that that are also like butting up against each other for dissemination or like programming and and like you know um establishing like importance of of like their respective um uh like foundational like content if you will um like working at cal poly for example we have four collecting areas and they all kind of like butt up against each other during specific um seasons or specific moments not to go into that but like that's sort of like the reality of an academic institution that has many different collections within many different um uh realms of of knowledge if you will so like a community archive like ourselves you know we we know what we're specialized in and we we do our very best to push forward with with this type of content um to put it simply chscc is a community what makes it a community archive is a sense that we provide a service to our community um local and far um we've had the opportunity to not only provide a reference material for local college students historians community members but we've also worked with folks in in china for example we've worked with uh professionals um on the east coast in the midwest um whether they're like private historians writing a book or whether they're library professionals um you know crafting an exhibition such as the case with like the uh national park service and their Ellis Island exhibition um what makes this a community archive again is just being able to serve um our community by providing them the resources that they require for for their uh for their work um in terms of doing this type of work independent from an institution um there's no strong bureaucracy that's in the way when it comes to for example applying for grants oh no

Cheeyeon
Oh his battery must have run out of something so funny

Chanel
Yeah we all know that oh no

Jana
He caught it right in time

David
Sorry about that my laptop died and I wasn't paying attention to that but do you want me to just like uh catch up where I last left off yeah so I was talking about bureaucracy and when at least when it comes to like grant writing for example at CHSSC we just do it we you know we get together as an archives committee we write by the way we're talking we get together as an archives committee we write our grant and it's just that but to give you an example at Cal Poly Pomona if special collections personnel wanted to write grant the writing process and applying for it is great but you also have to account time for running this idea and getting approval from the dean and then getting approval from like the provost of our academic division along with getting a number of like sign offs or approvals from like various personnel along the within the university uh often often is the case that you'll you know you'll you'll get those signatures you'll get those approvals but it is it like a time uh it's kind of like a time wasting sort of process and you kind of have to present justification to each and every one of like these entities in a college to to move forward with this process um so that's one way that we benefit from not working with the institution is that we're not you know we kind of have like the ability to carry out our work whenever we want um

David
And I can't think of any other way but yeah to simply put we we have again like that that focus of collecting of collecting what we truly think is is beneficial to our repository we're not ever under the pressure by a dean for example or like a uh any sort of like authority figure to collect a particular like donation which is often the case within a university archive um yeah yeah we're we're kind of like free thinkers and free doers within within a community archive is the way I would put it


Cheeyeon
Great thank you I think that answers our questions yeah

David
Is there anything else that you like what do you guys think not on my end

Cheeyeon
What do you guys think not on my end

Chanel
Um no I I think that's it I think um yeah i'm I have experience working in like Vancouver's Chinatown so this is like really interesting to learn about like what how LA is preserving history and how like integrated you are with um MLIS professionals I think that's cool like that you're doing it in a very like systematic way using institutional support

David
Yeah yeah for sure and it's taken close to like a decade of just building up the support and kind of figuring out sort of the best practice to sustaining you know what we do whether it's the we physically do in the archive or the partnerships that we have to keep up with the keeping up with the partnership part not to be redundant um is sort of like the invisible work that is sort of like done within a within an archive or a repository um like I mentioned before writing the letters um reaching out to community members through the newsletter um like that sort of work um it takes time to produce and I think like the end result of it can be easily like overlooked or easily like gleaned um as opposed to like the continuous sort of like processing and like digital realm sort of work that's done and an archivist by the interns and in the community archivists

Cheeyeon
Yeah thank you yeah. Thank you um yeah we'll reach out to riona I have riona's contact as well from Zoe um so yeah we'll do that and if we I think our interview covered a lot of grounds um but if we happen to have like additional questions do you mind if we like ask you over email

David
Yeah I don't mind um if you'd like me to clarify anything or um even if you'd like me to like proofread the transcript before it it gets published um i'm more than happy to do that as well sure that's good so much great yeah well thanks again for reaching out it's really um it's really cool in a way sort of like I reflect on sort of like my journey of of being being in the program and i'm like what i'm doing today and um you know at some point I was in your shoes I was reaching out to professionals I was conducting like the inner informational interviews and you know all the work that you all are doing right now definitely is going to lead up to a lot of uh good things in the future for sure um the experience you have now is definitely going to compound and and we'll take you far um are all all of you interested in like community archives is is that is that why you chose this prompt


Cheeyeon
Uh yeah I think most of us are yeah


David
And do you all have like experience already within community archives


Cheeyeon
Oh not yet I think starting to


David
Starting to are you all um like first year second year um MLIS students


Cheeyeon
Yeah we just started


David
oh it's dope okay um the one thing I will say is that we're always looking for interns for projects so um definitely during the summer time I think we'll have like an opening or two so I can definitely um send you guys like an email later this later this year sometime like maybe may people or may with like more info about any opportunities that we might have


Chanel
Sure thank you


David
All righty well all of you have a good rest of your day um and we'll keep in touch


Cheeyeon
Okay thank you so much bye



[back](../index.md)
